One Reason Why Tennessee Will Win
What happened to the Auburn running game?
From 2013 through the first three games of this season – a span of 70 games – the Tigers ran for fewer than 100 yards in just four games, losing all four.
Auburn has failed to hit the 100-yard rushing mark in each of its last three games, but it managed to win twice.
The Tennessee defensive front hasn’t been a rock – struggling over the last two games against Florida and Georgia – but Auburn’s offensive line is having an even tougher time.
Auburn isn’t controlling the clock, the offense isn’t making the most of its chances, and there’s been a big problem with fumbles and penalties.
The Vols need all of the help they can get.
There have been a whole slew of issues, but they’re not hurting themselves with penalties, and they’re not having that many problems with turnovers. But …
One Reason Why Auburn Will Win
The Tennessee offensive line is struggling.
The Vols are allowing way too many plays behind the line – it’s easy to get into the backfield on a regular basis, especially on third downs – and it’s showing for an offense that’s having problems getting anything going.
For all of Auburn’s issues. the defense is doing its part at generating pressure and keeping the team in games. It’s only giving up an average of 14 points per game, mainly because it’s getting off the field.
Auburn has allowed teams to convert 40% of their third down chances or more in two games – the losses to LSU and Mississippi State. Teams have been under the 40% mark in the four Tiger wins.
Tennessee is converting just 36% of its third down tries.
What’s Going To Happen
With two weeks off to recharge the batteries, the Auburn offense will come up with a few good early scoring drives, and then the defense will take care of the rest.
The Tigers won’t come up with a giant offensive performance, but it’ll get ahead and stay there. The Tennessee offense won’t keep the Auburn defensive front out of the backfield – the pressure will come in waves.
