A pre-game, locker-room pep talk from Florida legends Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel offered the Gators inspiration.With UF celebrating the 10-year anniversary of its 2008 national-championship team, Franks — much like Tebow did a decade ago — loaded the Gators on his back in the fourth quarter and ran, threw and even caught his team down the field for what turned out to be the game-winning touchdown.
At the end of his brief speech, Tebow whipped the crowd into a frenzy by saying, “I was born a Gator, I played as a Gator and I will die a Gator.” On this day, the Gators refused to die.
Huge win for us going forward.” With Tebow and the 2008 national-title team among the announced crowd of 90,283, the Gators (5-1, 2-1 SEC) and Tigers treated onlookers to an old-fashioned SEC slugfest followed by a fourth-quarter track meet.
“It feels so good.” With Tebow in town to be inducted into the UF Ring of Honor and the Gators’ trailing 19-14, Franks showcased the kind of versatility Tebow displayed during his decorated career.
“The Swamp was an intimidating place today.” Tebow was honored at the end of the first quarter when his name was unveiled on the north end zone facade where he joined five other Ring of Honor legends — Steve Spurrier, Jack Youngblood, Wilber Marshall, Emmitt Smith and Danny Wuerffel.
He then pitched the ball to tight end Lucas Krull on an end sweep before Krull threw it back to Franks, who caught the pass for 15 yards to the LSU 2.
“They helped set the Gator Standard, and today was a great way to show that Gator Standard is on its way back to where it should be.” An historic day for Tebow; a euphoric day for Franks.
Mission accomplished on Saturday when the Gators enjoyed their first sellout in three years and the Swamp was deliriously deafening just like it used to be in the Tebow years.
On the game-winning drive, Franks completed a 26-yard pass, had a 12-yard run and caught a 15-yard pass on a throwback from tight end Lucas Krull to set up Lamical Perine’s 2-yard touchdown run.
Franks opened the second half with a 49-yard completion to Hammond, giving the Gators the ball on the Tigers’ 13 following a personal-foul penalty by LSU on the play.
“Once I start getting confidence man, getting into that rhythm I feel like I'm a pretty dominant guy." LSU continued to move the ball, twice reaching into UF territory but only managed three points — on a 33-yard field goal by Cole Tracy for a 10-7 lead.
The Swamp was an intimidating place to come play.” Stewart’s pick was LSU quarterback Joe Burrow’s first interception of the season.
And, then, on the very next play, as an ode to Tebow, Franks did a little Tebow rocker-step toward the goal-line and then stepped back and threw a 3-yard TD pass to tie the score 7-all.
But on first-and-10 from the UF 28, Gator pass rusher Jachai Polite turned the corner and strip-sacked Burrow to force the Tigers’ fourth turnover of the season.
The touchdown put UF ahead 20-19 and was the game’s fourth lead change, the kind of back and forth that has come to be expected in this longstanding crossover rivalry.
They scored their first touchdown shortly after Tebow’s induction — coincidence or destiny? — with Franks lofting a perfectly thrown 35-yard pass to Josh Hammond on the 3-yard line.
But before the pick-6 and after LSU went 80 yards on just four plays to take a 19-14 lead, Franks was absolutely Tebowesque.
As Tebow explained about the team he quarterbacked to the national championship a decade ago, “We had a lot of talent, but we had guys who were crazy competitive.
He did everything in leading the Gators 75 yards on nine plays for the go-ahead touchdown.
Perine, who rushed for a season-high 85 yards and two scores, ended the nine-play drive with a 1-yard touchdown run with 12:30 to go in the first half.
Let’s be honest, the Gators leaned heavily on their defense in the road victories against Tennessee and Mississippi State, and their defense was certainly impressive again on Saturday (see safety Brad Stewart’s pick-6 for the game-sealing touchdown with 1:45 left).
Moments later, coach Dan Mullen provided the energy to a sellout crowd, whipping it into a frenzy while he hopped up and down in the south end-zone tunnel and waved his arms like a man possessed.
Sophomore safety Brad Stewart, a New Orleans native, sealed the win on an interception returned for a 25-yard touchdown with 1:45 remaining in the game, sending the Swamp into pandemonium.
Mullen, the offensive coordinator and quarterback coach during that 2008 national-championship season, has been calling upon Gator Nation to rise up and return the Swamp to its old raucous, rollicking, pulsating, intimidating self.
Franks and the Gators’ answered with arguably their best drive of the season, covering 75 yards in seven plays and 2:01.
“This is the Florida that I know and the Florida that I love,” said Mullen, who was so pumped up before the game he began frenetically jumping up and down in the tunnel before storming onto the field with his team.
Franks followed the play with a 3-yard touchdown pass to Moral Stephens to give UF a 14-10 lead.
He completed only 12-of-27 passes for 161 yards with one touchdown and an ugly interception, but he came through when he had to.
On the next play, Franks lobbed a throw into the middle of the end zone and into the hands of LSU’s cornerback Jontre Kirklin.
Stewart’s play highlighted a wild fourth quarter that featured the Gators’ most impressive drive of the season and ended with UF's fourth straight win and its first against a top-10 opponent since 2015.
“Shoutout to Gator Nation because we couldn’t hear a thing after that interception or the drive after that,” Stewart said.
“It was great having him [Tebow] and the that national-championship team back in the Swamp,” Franks said.
A third-down sack by linebacker Vosean Joseph, who had a game-high 14 tackles, and poor punt by LSU gave the Gators the ball on the Tigers’ 43.
These are the guys that set that standard,” Mullen said of Tebow and the 2008 team.
But on the game’s opening drive, LSU quickly sucked the life out of the Swamp.
Franks, though, would open the second half with the kind of mistake that marred last season but had been rare in 2018.
The fast-paced, 10-play drive covered 75 yards in just 3:17, culminating in 4-yard touchdown run by tailback Nick Brossette.
Trailing 14-10, the Tigers gashed the Gators for 80 yards on the ensuing drive after gaining just 118 yards the previous two quarters.
A goal-line stand earned the Gators a win in 2016 and a missed extra point handed the Tigers’ a 17-16 decision last season in the Swamp.
The Gators failed to answer on offense.
Brossette had runs of 31 and 47 yards before scoring on a 1-yard touchdown.
LSU would not hold the 19-14 lead for long, with the Tebow-inspired Gators taking control in the final nine minutes and taking a big step toward creating their own legacy.
The Ohio State transfer suffered another pick to end the next drive along with an unbeaten start for the Tigers (5-1, 2-1).
He ran the option and pitched the ball to Lamical Perine for 17 yards.
We loved them and embraced them.” Well, Timmy, this was as big a moment as you could get in Dan Mullen’s first year as Florida’s head coach.
“We keep finding different ways to win football games,” Mullen said.
We had a whole team of guys who thrived in the big moments.
Maybe, just maybe, these Gators have a little bit of 2008 in them.
Fans stood and chanted his name, “Te-bow! Te-bow!” A highlight montage of his four years of Gator glory burst onto the stadium JumboTron.
UF’s players wanted to make those Gators proud and show the progress the program has made under Mullen.
On third-and-7, he ran the ball up the gut for 12 yards.
The Tigers stalled and the Gators came to life.
He completed a gorgeous 26-yard pass to Van Jefferson down the sideline.
From there, UF rode tailback Perine, who grinded out 26 tough yards on seven carries.
Perine ran it in from there for the 20-19 UF lead.
A pre-game, locker-room pep talk from Florida legends Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel offered the Gators inspiration.
“Just a big-time win,” quarterback Feleipe Franks said.
When the game was over, Franks thrust his fist into the air, high-fived fans during a celebratory lap around the stadium and got a congratulatory hug from Tebow.
Hail to the Swamp.