A pre-game, a locker room talk from Florida legends Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel offered Gators inspiration.
Moments later, coach Dan Mullen supplied the energy to a group of sold-offs, driving it crazy as he jumped up and down the tunnel to the south and waved his arms like a man possessed.
The stage was a set for an exciting and memorable day in the Swamp.
Mullen and the number 22 Gators did not disappoint during the victory on Saturday 27-19 on the Tigers LSU number 5.
"We continue to find different ways to win football matches," said Mullen. "We punch each other in the face and do not hold back, which is something huge for this team.
"Great victory for us, great victory for us going forward".
With Tebow and the 2008 national title team amid the announced crowd of 90,283, the Gators (5-1, 2-1 SEC) and Tigers treated the spectators of an old SEC slugfest followed by a fourth-quarter meeting.
Sophomore Security Brad Stewart, a native of New Orleans, sealed the victory on an interception returned for a 25-yard landing with 1:45 left in play, sending the Swamp into pandemonium.
"Shoutout to Gator Nation because we could not hear anything after that interception or drive after," Stewart said.
Mullen, the team's offensive coordinator in 2005-08, remembers those days well.
"There's a Florida, I know, there's a Florida I love," said the 46-year-old. "It was so tonight." The Swamp was an intimidating place to come and play. "
Stewart's choice was the first interception of the season by Joe Burrow of the LSU quarterback. The transfer of the state of Ohio has undergone another choice to end the next drive along with an undefeated start for the Tigers (5-1, 2-1).
Stewart's match highlighted a fourth wild quarter that featured the most impressive race of the season at Gators and ended with the fourth consecutive UF victory and the first against a top-10 opponent since 2015.
"Just a big win," said quarterback Feleipe Franks. "It's so beautiful."
With Tebow in town to be included in the Ring of Honor UF and in the final period of the Gators 19-14, Franks showed the kind of versatility Tebow showed during his decorated career. In the wake of the game, Franks completed a 26-yard pass, a 12-yard run and took a 15-yard pass on a return from the tight end Lucas Krull to set Lamical Perine's 2-yard run down.
The touchdown brought the UF into the lead for 20-19 and was the fourth major advantage of the game, the kind of forward and back that is expected of this long-standing crossover rivalry.
"It was a heavy fight out there," said Mullen.
The last four matches have been decided by a touchdown or not. In 2016, the Gators won a victory in the goal line and an extra-time point gave the Tiger a 17-16 decision last season.
Together with the Tebow induction, its 2008 national title team was rewarded at the interval.
The UF players wanted to make those Gators proud and show the progress made by the program under Mullen.
"I'm talking about the Gator standard, these are the guys who set the standard," said Mullen from Tebow and the 2008 team.
But in the opening disk of the game, LSU quickly sucked life out of the swamp.
LSU attacked the defense of UF going up-time and identifying a weakness, backup cornerback C.J. McWilliams. McWilliams conceded three complete passes, starting with a 38-yard catch from Justin Jefferson. The fast 10-player game covered 75 yards in just 3:17, culminating in a 4-yard touchdown run by tailback Nick Brossette.
The Gators did not respond to the offense. Soon things looked grim when the Tigers returned to lead the camp. But the first and the 10th of UF 28, Gator passes the rusher Jachai Polite turned the corner and sacked Burrow to force the fourth round of the Tigers' season.
The game would change the complexion of the game. The Tigers stopped and the Gator came alive.
Special teams would be essential.
Twice, Mr. Tommy Townsend blocked the Tigers in their territory. The second time, Townsend's punt left the LSU starting from 5.
A third bag of linebacker Vosean Joseph, who had a 14-high tackle, and a poor LSU punt gave Gators the ball on 43 of the Tigers. From there, the UF stalked the Perine tail, which ground 26 difficult yards seven leads. Perine, who rushed for 85 meters of the season and two points, ended the nine-play with a touchdown from 1 yard with 12:30 to be done in the first half.
"I was just getting into a rhythm," Perine said. "When I begin to trust myself, I feel at that pace
