Inspiring speeches from the Florida legends Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel inspired the Gators.
A moment later, coach Dan Mullen provided energy to a group of light-selling people, letting him run wildly, while he jumped up and down in the southern tunnel, waving his arms like a man.
The stage is a stage in the swamp that is full of emotions and unforgettable days.
Mullen and the 22nd Crocodile team did not disappoint in the 27-19 defeat of the 5th Louisiana University team on Saturday.
“We are always looking for different ways to win football matches,” Mullen said. "We were punched in the face and we won't back down. This is a very important thing for this team.
"We have won a huge victory for us. We have a huge victory in progress."
With the announcement of Tebow and the 2008 national championship team of 90,283 people, Gators (5-1, 2-1 SEC) and Tigers brought onlookers to the old-fashioned SEC slufefest, followed by the fourth quarter.
Sophomore security officer Brad Stewart, a native of New Orleans, defeated the victory with a 25-yard touchdown of 1:45 in the game, leaving the swamp in chaos.
Stewart said: "To pay tribute to the crocodile country, because after that interception we can't hear anything or drive."
From 2005 to 2008, the team's offensive coordinator, Ma Lun, recalled those days.
“I know Florida has one I like Florida,” said the 46-year-old. "This is the case tonight. The swamp is a daunting place."
Stewart's choice was for Louisiana State University quarterback Joe Burrow to intercept the season for the first time. The Ohio transfer took another draft to end the next game and the Tigers' unbeaten record (5-1, 2-1).
Stewart's game highlights the fourth quarter of fanaticism, which is the most impressive performance of the Gators this season, and ended with UF's fourth consecutive victory, and for the first time since 2015 against the top 10 opponents.
"Just a major victory," quarterback Felipe Franks said. "feels good."
As Tebow was introduced to the UF Honor Ring in the town and the Gators trailed 19-14, Franks showed the diversity that Tebow showed in his decorative career. In the game winning game, Franks completed a 26-yard pass, had a 12-yard run, and grabbed a 15-yard pass from a nervous Lucas Krull's comeback. Established a 2 yard touchdown score for La Pinee Palin.
The touchdown made UF lead 20-19 and was the fourth leading change in the game. This long-term cross-competition has already been expected.
"That is a heavyweight battle," Mullen said.
The last four meetings were made by touchdown or fewer decisions. A goal line position allowed the Gators to win the 2016 victory and missed an extra point. Last season Tigers made a 17-16 decision in Swamp.
With the appointment of Tibo, his 2008 national championship team won an honor at the end of the half.
UF players want to make these Gators proud and show the progress the project has made under Mullen.
“I talked about the standards of crocodiles. These are the people who set this standard,” Mullen spoke about Tibo and the 2008 team.
But at the start of the game, LSU quickly took life away from the swamp.
Louisiana State University attacked UF's defense through fast pace and finding a weakness, defender cornerback C.J. McWilliams. Mike Williams allowed three complete passes, starting with Justin Jefferson's 38-yard catch. The fast-paced 10-player race was 75 yards at 3:17 and was eventually scored 4 yards by guard Nick Brossette.
The Crocodile team failed to answer on the offensive end. As the Tigers started again, things quickly became bleak. But in the first and tenth place of UF 28, Gator passer Jachai Polite turned the corner and was fired Burrow to force the Tigers to make the fourth turnover this season.
The show will change the skin color of the game. The Tigers were stagnant and the Crocodile team was finally resurrected.
A special team will be the key.
Twice, the punter Tommy Townsend nailed the Tigers deep in their territory. The second time, Townsend's punt left LSU from the 5th.
The third time the players, consisting of linebacker Watson Joseph, scored a game-high 14 tackles and a bad punt from Louisiana State University, allowing the Tigers to play on the Tigers' No. 43 ball. Score. From there, UF rode guard Perine, who scored 26 tough sevens on the court. Perine rushed to the season's highest 85 yards and two points, ending nine games and scoring a 1-yard touchdown at 12:30 in the first half.
"I just got into the rhythm," Perry said. “Once I started to gain self-confidence and enter that rhythm, I think I am a very good person.”
Louisiana State University continued to move the ball twice into the United Front, but only scored 3 points - Cortresi scored a 10-7 lead with a 33-yard field goal.
The answer from Franks and the Crocodile team is arguably the best motivation for the season, covering 75 yards in 7 games and 2:01. Franks has built a perfect 35-yard connection with Josh Hammond on the corner route, which is a bright spot. Franks followed the game and sent a 3-yard touchdown pass to the moral Stephens team, giving the league a 14-10 lead.