Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel, inspired by Florida legends, introduced the Gators' inspiration before the game.
Moments later, coach Dan Mullen provided energy to a packed crowd, drove her mad by jumping into the tunnel in the south zone and waving her arms like a man possessed.
The scene was the scene of a moving and memorable day in the swamp.
Mullen and No. 22 Gators did not disappoint in Saturday's 19-19 win over No. 5 LSU Tigers.
"We continue to find different ways to win football games," said Mullen. "We are hit directly in the face and we do not shrink, which is huge for this team.
"Great victory for us, huge win for us in the future."
With Tebow and the world champion team in 2008 among the 90,283 announced spectators, the Gators (5-1, 2-1 SEC) and the Tigers invited spectators to an old-fashioned SEC club event followed a fourth quarter meeting.
Second Parental Security Brad Stewart, from New Orleans, sealed the win over an interception that was returned for a 25-yard touchdown where 1:45 remained in the match and the swamp was transferred to a pandemonium.
"Shoutout to Gator Nation because after this interception or the commute that followed, we could not hear anything," said Stewart.
Mullen, the team's attacking coordinator in 2005-08, remembers these days very well.
"There is a Florida I know, there is a Florida I like," said the 46-year-old. "It was like that tonight, the marsh was an intimidating place to come and play."
Stewart's choice was the first interception of the season with LSU quarterback Joe Burrow. The transfer from the state of Ohio once again had the choice to end the next stage, as well as an undefeated start for the Tigers (5-1, 2-1).
Stewart's match highlighted a fourth wild quarter with the most impressive round of the Gators season and ended with a fourth straight UF victory and the first against one of the top 10 opponents by 2015.
"Just a big win," quarterback Feleipe Franks said. "It's so good."
With Tebow in the city to be inducted into the UF's ring of honor and accumulated backlog in the 19-14 Gators game, Franks showed the kind of versatility Tebow has shown during his decorated career . Franks managed a 26-yard pass, a 12-yard run and a 15-yard pass on a bequest from the tight Lucas Krull stop to organize the 2-yard touchdown from Lamical Perine.
The touchdown suggested UF at 20-19 and was the fourth major change in the game, the kind of back-and-forth that was expected in this long-standing cross rivalry.
"It was a heavyweight fight there," said Mullen.
The last four meetings were decided by one touchdown or less. A goal-line score gave the Gators a win in 2016 and a missed extra point gave the Tigers a 17-16 decision in the swamp last season.
With the induction of Tebow, her national team for the 2008 title was honored at the break.
The UF players wanted to make these Gators proud and show the progress made by the program under Mullen.
"I'm talking about the standard Gator, who are the people who have defined this standard," said Mullen van Tebow and the 2008 team.
But during the first part of the game, LSU quickly sucked life out of the swamps.
LSU attacked UF's defense by accelerating and identifying a weak spot, back-cornerback C.J. McWilliams. McWilliams allowed three full passes, starting with Justin Jefferson's 38-yard effort. The quick 10-game offense led to 75 yards in just 3:17, leading to a 4-yard touchdown by halfback Nick Brossette.
The Gators could not react to the offense. The situation quickly became dark when the Tigers were back on the ground. But the first and tenth of the UF 28, the runner Gator Jachai Polite turned the corner and Burrow was dismantled to impose the fourth turnover of the season.
The game would change the complexion of the game. The tigers stopped and the Gators came to life.
Special teams would be the key.
Tommy Townsend has twice fired tigers deep inside their territory. The second time, Townsend left LSU from his 5.
A third bag from linebacker Vosean Joseph, who scored the game record with 14 tackles and a poor puncture at LSU, allowed the Gators to win the ball over the 43 of the Tigers. From there, UF took the tail of Perine, who dug 26 yards on seven yards. Perine, who has accumulated 85 yards and two scores, finished the nine-game race with a 1-yard touchdown with 12:30 left in the first half.
"I just had a rhythm," said Perine. "As soon as I have confidence in the man and I am at this rate, I feel that I am a pretty dominant person."
LSU continued to move the ball, reaching twice the UF territory but only three points - on a 33-yard placement by Cole Tracy for a 10-7 lead.
Franks and the Gators undoubtedly responded with their best performance of the season, more than 75 yards in seven innings and 2:01. Franks' 35-yard high point with Josh Hammond was the highlight. Franks followed the encounter with a 3-yard touchdown pass to Moral Stephens to give UF a 14-10 lead.
Franks, however, would open the second half with the kind of foul that was spoiled last season, but that was rare in 2018.
Franks opened the second half with a rounded 49-yard pass to Hammond and gave the ball to the Gators on the Tigers '13 after a personal LSU error on the play. On the next play, Franks pitched a shot in the middle of the goal area and passed in the hands of LSU cornerback, Jontre Kirklin.
LSU capitalized, but it would take a while.
With a 14-10 lead, the Tigers had 80 yards on the Gators after winning just 118 yards in the previous two quarters. Brossette had 31 and 47 yards before scoring a 1-yard touchdown.
LSU will not be long in advance, with the Tebow inspired Gators taking control of the last nine minutes and taking a big step forward in creating their own legacy.
The Gators do not lead too much.
"It's a next step for us," said Chauncey Gardner-Johnson, in defense in the back. "We do not stay with a match."