Florida faithful today probably should be saying over and over, “It’s only Charleston Southern, it’s only Charleston Southern, it’s only Charleston Southern.”
But they should not be required to do that — or ever think it — after what they’ve been put through for the last eight years.
This is a fan base that has been starving for offense — for first downs and big plays and points and really good quarterback play.
The Gators served up all of that in heavy doses Saturday night in The Swamp in Dan Mullen’s much-anticipated head coaching debut in Gainesville.
Florida, which averaged only 22.1 points a game last season, scored 38 points in the first half alone on the strength of five — count ’em, five — touchdown passes by Feleipe Franks and the Gators rolled to a crowd-pleasing 53-6 victory before 81,164.
“It was a great win,” Mullen said. “We have a lot of work to do. We’ll get back to it on Monday and get ready for SEC play this week.
“You want to see huge improvement from week one to two. Let’s make some huge strides during preparation in everything we do.”
Yes, the lopsided win was against outmanned Charleston Southern and the big numbers are a little bit inflated. But that’s not the point.
What this performance is really all about is hope. It provides hope for better things ahead for an offense and a program and a fan base that has had little lately, especially coming off a 4-7 season.
“We can only go up from here,” Franks said. “The players are excited about next week.”
Franks, the redshirt sophomore who struggled so often and so mightily a year ago, looked like a different player — poised, confident, efficient managing the offense. He had the best performance of his career (and it’s not even close) and he did it in just one half.
Franks threw five touchdown passes to four different receivers — Trevon Grimes, Van Jefferson (two), Josh Hammond and Tyrie Cleveland — and completed 16 of 24 passes for 219 yards in the first half, then retired for the night.
He is the first UF quarterback to throw for five or more touchdowns in a game since Chris Leak had six against South Carolina in 2004. Franks had only nine touchdown passes all of last season.
“I think (his play) was pretty good,” Mullen said. “There will be some things on film that he missed. He also made some plays.
“His decision making, his communication, was pretty solid. I thought he made good decisions for the most part and made some plays. He had some good decisions in the running game as well. He looked rock solid.”
Franks gave credit to his wide receivers.
“Our receivers had a really good night,” he said. “I tried to spread the ball around. We’ve got some big, tall guys in the red zone, quick as well. We’re all just scratching the surface. We have a long way to go to reach our full potential.
“It’s a big progression for me. Each year get better and better.”
While Franks and the Florida offense were flying up and down the field in the first half, an aggressive defense was stifling, holding the Buccaneers to just one first down, coming on a 70-yard run late in the second quarter. But even that didn’t end well for Charleston Southern, with Tyler Tekac’s 22-yard field goal getting blocked by defensive end Zachary Carter on the final play of the half.
The Gators played mostly with backups for the entire second half, but still managed to outscore the Bucs 15-6.