UF coach Dan Mullen figured the Gators’ win streak against Kentucky had to end, calling it on Monday, “the nature of sports.”
Sometimes, nature can be cruel.
Mullen could not have expected a nation-leading streak dating to 1986 would end during his first season and first SEC game as Florida head coach.
Kentucky’s 27-16 win Saturday night showed how far the No. 25 Gators (1-1, 0-1 SEC) have to go under Mullen and how far the program has fallen since his last game in the Swamp against the Wildcats — a 63-5 UF rout in 2008.
Mullen instead tried to take the long view and look beyond a bitter defeat.
“I mean that [2008] was a long time ago. We'll see as the season goes on,” he said. “One game never defines anything. That's one game in a long season. Much more [important] to me is not where we're at right at this very second, it's where our attitude's going to be on Monday when we show up to get ready for next week's game.
“I'll have a better idea at that point where we might be as a program.”
By any measure, the loss was a major setback.
Kentucky had some close calls against the Gators in recent seasons, but the Wildcats always found a way to give away the game. Last year, UF completed a 28-27 comeback when Kentucky failed to cover receiver Freddie Swain, who caught the game-winning touchdown in the final minute.
This time, the Wildcats (2-0, 1-0) left nothing to chance and snapped a 31-game losing streak against the Gators — the longest in SEC history against a continuous opponent.
“Obviously it is hard to describe the feeling that I’m feeling right now,” Kentucky coach Mark Stoops said. “Just feel so blessed to be the head coach here and to that victory is for truly everybody. Our fan base has waited a long time for this. To say that it doesn’t bother them would be a lie because it’s the unnecessary burden that these players carry when they come into a streak like that.
“We don’t have to deal with it anymore after today.”
UF clearly had become so accustomed to beating Kentucky, even when the Gators should not have. Defensive back Chauncey Gardner-Johnson even guaranteed victory earlier in the week, despite the fact UF was lucky to win a year ago and was coming off a 4-7 season.
Mullen insisted, “The streak had nothing to do with tonight's game.”
Even so, the streak raised the stakes of Saturday night’s game for both teams.
In the end, Mullen, who was in ninth grade when UF last lost to Kentucky, was as stunned as the announced crowd of 80,651 at the Swamp Saturday night as the Wildcats dominated the Gators on the line of scrimmage, at the skill positions and on the sideline.
The loss was UF’s first during an SEC opener since 2004, coach Ron Zook’s final season.
A 4-yard touchdown pass by quarterback Feleipe Franks to Swain with 3:43 cut the Wildcats’ lead to 21-16 and made things interesting, helping even out a lopsided stat sheet.
Otherwise, Kentucky clearly was the better team, seemingly with better talent than UF.
Kentucky finished with Saturday night’s game with a 454-355 edge in total yards. This included 303 rushing yards against an undermanned UF defense without pass rusher CeCe Jefferson (academics) and linebacker David Reese (ankle injury). Two plays into the game, the Gators then lost promising sophomore cornerback Marco Wilson to a left knee injury.
Missed tackles, blown assignments and a lack of physicality at the point of attack also allowed fleet-footed quarterback Terry Wilson and hard-charging tailback Benny Snell to move the ball all night on the Gators. Each ran for more than 100 yards, with Snell finishing with 175 yards on 27 carries and Wilson 105 yards on 10 attempts.
“It’s something we harp on constantly on both sides of the ball is making sure and our guys learning how to be physical, learning how to do it,” Mullen said. “You don’t really know until the season starts because you used to always going against yourself.”
But a week after he was benched during a lackluster 35-20 Kentucky home win over Central Michigan, Wilson made the night’s two most pivotal plays with his right arm. The sophomore junior college transfer capitalized on busted coverage by the Gators and an anemic pass rush that failed to produce a single quarterback hurry, much less a sack.
Kentucky took a 7-0 lead when Wilson, a sophomore junior college transfer, found receiver David Bouvier for a 29-yard score behind UF sophomore safety Brad Stewart, who lost the Wildcats’ senior in coverage along the sideline.
With the Gators trailing 14-10 and still hanging around, sophomore receiver Lynn Bowden beat safety Jaewon Taylor and Wilson found him for a 54-yard touchdown on a third-and-16. The play was the Wildcats’ eighth third-down conversion during nine tries — Kentucky finished 9-of-13 on the so-called “money down.”
“We got no rush and we had a breakdown in the secondary,” Mullen said. “We had a safety there and he just got himself out of position. I think we, I don’t think we did a great job rushing the passer. We didn’t do a good job of keeping them contained in the pocket with lanes, letting him run. We were 9-of-13 in our third-down defense, that’s got to improve.
“You had 13 opportunities to get off the field and you did it four times.”
Meanwhile, the Gators’ offense was having its own issues.
A week after a feel-good, 53-6 rout of over-matched Charleston Southern, Mullen’s offense and Franks struggled against defensive-minded Kentucky coach Mark Stoops and his Wildcats.
After throwing five first-half touchdowns last weekend, Franks finished 17-of-38 passing for 232 yards, two touchdowns and an interception. He also fumbled on the final play when hit by Kentucky linebacker Josh Allen, leading to a Wildcats score on the final play.
“At the end of the day, it all falls on me,” said Franks, a redshirt sophomore making his 10th start. “As a quarterback, as a leader, I’ve gotta do better.”
Franks and UF’s offense showed a spark early and took a 10-7 with 8:27 left in the second quarter behind sophomore Kadarius Toney, who was suspended for the Gators’ opener. Toney, who scored a touchdown during last season’s win in Lexington, followed a 16-yard catch with an 8-yard run out of the Wildcat formation.
On the first-and-10, Kentucky’s defense charged the line expecting run, but left tight end Moral Stephens completely uncovered. Franks found him for an 18-yard touchdown pass.
The play seemed to be deja vü, and another sign the Wildcats always would be doomed against the Gators. But Kentucky would not be denied and handed Stoops, the former Florida State defensive coordinator, if not his biggest win during six seasons in Lexington, his most gratifying.
Mullen, on the other hand, rarely had suffered such a crushing defeat. The 46-year-old was 8-1 against Kentucky while at Mississippi State and hired in November to return UF to its glorious past.
Instead, Saturday night was the end of an era as Mullen fell to 0-1 against Kentucky as the Gators’ head coach. Beginning Monday, Mullen will find out whether such a deflating defeat lingers.
“I don’t know if the loss will hurt or help moving forward,” he said. “We’re going to find out in how we react to it Monday and how we react to it throughout the whole week of practice and how we react to it and how we step on the field next Saturday.”