It was an SEC heavyweight matchup of top 10 teams, with ESPN’s College GameDay on hand, 11 NFL scouts looking on and a national TV audience tuned in to watch.
But the Florida Gators were not quite ready big stage. Not yet, at least.
Coach Dan Mullen’s team showed enough fight during Saturday’s 36-17 loss to the Georgia Bulldogs.
The No. 9 Gators (6-2, 4-2 SEC) also could not finish as the No. 7 Bulldogs found their stride during the decisive fourth quarter and never looked back.
“I don’t think we played very well,” Mullen said. “That might have been our worst execution performance of the year, and I’m really disappointed with that.
“We’ll learn as a team. You get in these big-game situations right there you got to go execute.”
The Gators led the Bulldogs (7-1, 5-1) for fewer than three minutes, following a 36-yard touchdown strike from Feleipe Franks to Freddie Swain on the opening series of the second half.
Georgia quickly answered and was poised to put the game away following a fumble by Franks on the UF 1. Instead, the Gators closed the third quarter with an epic goal line stand spanning six plays to stay within striking distance.
In the end, UF simply could not avoid enough mistakes or deliver enough timely punches to push past a balanced Georgia attack in front of an announced crowd of 84,463 at Jacksonville’s TIAA Bank Field.
The Bulldogs showcased more speed, made fewer mistakes and held a decided edge at quarterback. Georgia sophomore Jake Fromm was nearly flawless, while Franks finished with as many bad plays as good ones.
Fromm’s 24-yard touchdown pass to Terry Godwin with 8:39 remaining was the sophomore’s third score of the day — each of them on third down — and gave Georgia a comfortable 29-17 lead, effectively ending UF’s upset bid.
“You can’t make mistakes a team like Georgia,” UF senior pass rusher CeCe Jefferson said. “Because obviously you get the result you got today. Their playmakers definitely came today, and they got the win.”
The loss ended the resurgent Gators’ slim SEC title hopes.
Yet, Saturday’s clash also may have set the stage for a bright future in a long-standing series that had lost some luster.
For the first time since 2008, the two teams met as top 10 foes. After a slow start by the Gators, the game lived up to its billing until the Bulldogs’ fourth-quarter run.
"I definitely feel like we were in the game the whole game,” linebacker David Reese. “They didn't really do anything too special. We just didn't make the plays when they needed to be made.”
Georgia led 13-7 after 30 minutes. But two teams traded touchdowns in fewer than five minutes to open the second half, with UF grabbing its only lead of the game, at 14-13.
But UF’s edge did not last for long.The Bulldogs blitzkrieged Florida for 72 yards on seven plays, highlighted by a 35-yard pass from Fromm to tight end Charlie Woerner and ending with a 12-yard touchdown from Fromm to receiver Justin Holloman.
“Their quarterback just did a great job of controlling the game,” Reese said. “The wide receivers just, I don’t know. They caused us problems. Usually that’s not the case with our defense, but it was the case today.
“We just got to move forward.”
Fromm and Holloman also connected on a 16-yard touchdown for the game’s first score. Each time, the victim was UF backup cornerback C.J. McWilliams.
Holloman and McWilliams tangled one more time amid the most-riveting sequence of the day.With his team trailing 20-14 following a Georgia punt to the 1-yard line, a fumble by Franks looked like the death knell for Mullen’s squad. Instead, the UF defense dug in and did not give an inch.
Georgia’s only forward momentum followed a unsportsmanlike conduct penalty on third down against Mullen, who stormed the field of play in a rage after a questionable pass interference call on McWilliams against Holloman.
McWilliams might have been beaten twice for touchdowns by Holloman, but this time the Gator did not seem to lay on hand on the Bulldog.
Whatever the case, a fresh set of downs from the Gators’ half-yard line did not matter as UF stopped Georgia short of the end zone on three more plays.
In all, the Gators stuffed six of the Bulldog’s attempts to score from the 1-yard line.
The UF defense roared with delight after doing its job.
“There's a lot of things in the course of this game that showed we can be an excellent football team,” Mullen said. “There are times in the game you look and say, 'OK, we're playing like the Florida Gators, like we expect to play.' Goal-line stand ... That's what we expect to be. We come out in the second half, go right down the field and make some plays and score.
“Other situations, we weren't as clean as we needed to be.”
While Mullen’s team never quit, the team ultimately could not overcome three turnovers, including two by Franks, and the Bulldogs’ offensive playmakers who got sharper as the day wore on and the Gators’ frustration grew.
Mullen is eager to see how his players respond. An SEC title may be out of reach, but UF’s first-year coach said the Gators still have a lot at stake.
“There’s a lot of football still to be played,” he said. “You never know how things are going to turn out. We got to just keep, we have to be better this week than last week. That’s the pride. That’s what it’s really all about in there.”