University of Georgia coach Kirby Smart said his team had to endure criticims for two weeks about a 36-16 loss to LSU the last time they played a game.
They owned it. And then they did something about it.
The seventh-ranked Bulldogs pulled away from a 14-13 third-quarter deficit as quarterback Jake Fromm threw two second-half touchdown passes and running back D’Andre Swift scored the clincher from 33 yards out with 4:29 left to lift Georgia to a 36-17 victory over the ninth-ranked Florida Gators in front of 84,436 on Saturday at TIAA Bank Field.
“They had to listen for two weeks about everything that was wrong with them, everything they did wrong, everything they did not do right and I think that was a motivating factor,” Smart said of the loss to the Tigers. “This group of men is as tough as they come.”
Georgia now has its SEC East destiny back in its own hands. The Bulldogs play at Kentucky next week and will clinch the division title with a victory and advance to the SEC Championship game on Dec. 1 in Atlanta — presumably against No. 1-ranked Alabama.
Florida, in the meantime, returns home for three games in a row, starting with Missouri on Saturday.
The 96th meeting between the two SEC rivals and the 85th in Jacksonville was closer than last year’s 42-7 Georgia rout. But in the end the Bulldogs pulled away because Fromm was able to exploit Florida’s thin depth in the secondary and convert key third-down plays.
After the Bulldogs (7-1, 5-1) kept the chains moving on only five of 14 third-down plays in the loss to Tigers, and then had only two of six in the first half against the ninth-ranked Gators (6-2, 4-2), Fromm found the magic and converted six of eight in the second half.
“It was execution,” said Fromm, who completed 17 of 24 passes for 240 yards and presided over an offense that did not make a turnover against a UF defense that was as voracious as any team in the country in pouncing on loose balls and errant throws. “It started with the guys blocking the right guys, me making the right reads, the wide receivers running the right routes and making the catch. We worked hard during the bye week to get better on third down. It’s something we wanted to focus on.”
Two third-down plays stood above the others. Nursing a 23-17 lead early in the fourth quarter, Fromm took the Dawgs on a nine-play, 75-yard drive in which he completed an 18-yard pass on third-and-11 to Jeremiah Holloman, then hit Terry Godwin with a 24-yard TD pass on third-and-nine for a 29-17 lead.
Georgia converted two more third-down plays on its next possession, Fromm on a 22-yard pass to Riley Ridley on third-and-four to the Gators 38 and then Swift on the final touchdown on third-and-five.
Fromm threw a 16-yard TD pass to Holloman in the first quarter to give the Dawgs a 10-0 lead and the second of three Rodriguo Blankenship field goals made it 13-6 edge at halftime.
Fromm then answered Florida’s only lead of the game with a 12-yard scoring pass to Holloman, Godwin’s backup, on the Dawgs’ first turn with the ball in the second half.
It was that third-quarter drive that Smart said showed him something. Florida quarterback Feleipe Franks had just thrown his best pass of the day, a 36-yard bullet to Freddie Swan to give the Gators their first lead against Georgia since winning in 2016.
The play was set up by a 51-yard kickoff return by Kadarius Toney and the moment had clearly swung to the Gators.
The lead lasted less than three minutes. Fromm connected with Charlie Woerner for 35 yards, Swift for 4, and then went down the sideline for the second score to Holloman.
“That answered the bell ... that was a big, big drive in the game, after they scored,” Smart said.
It was true that the Gator secondary, which lost potential All-American Marco Wilson at cornerback in the second game of the season, got even more beat up when C.J. Henderson went out with an injury early in the game.
Florida tried to cover up for its young corners, C.J. McWilliams and Trey Dean, by playing a two-deep zone but Fromm recognized the gaps and exploited them.
Gators coach Dan Mullen tried not to use that as an excuse.
“Two corners, the two best players on the team who like to play man coverage and they’re both out ... that’s a struggle,” Mullen said. “All year we’ve had guys banged up, injured. But the next guys have to step up and go make plays.”
The other crucial impact on the game was Georgia flipping the script on turnovers. The Bulldogs defense had only nine for the season, while the Gators had double that number.
But Georgia forced two in the first quarter alone and three for the game, while at the same time playing a clean game on offense.
“We didn’t listen,” said linebacker Monty Rice, who forced a fumble by Jordan Scarlett in the first quarter, which was recovered by Richard LeCounts to set up Fromm’s first TD pass to Holloman. “We only listen to our coaches and ourselves. We work on getting turnovers in practice all the time. Jake protected the football and we got turnovers. Whoever wins that battle wins the game.”
Franks got off to a slow start with an interception in the first period, and finished with 13 of 21 completions for 105 yards. Lamichel Perine led the Gators on the ground with 62 yards and Scarlett added 56.
Mullen stayed positive.
“We’ve got three straight in The Swamp coming up and a lot of football still to play,” he said. “I want to see our guys attack the week with the right attitude. I saw a lot of things in the course of the game that showed we can be an excellent football team.”