Terry Wilson went through his usual handoff motion on the snap.
He turned to give the ball to running back Benny Snell but pulled away at the last second. Then he looked straight ahead. A hole just big enough for a body to slip through materialized. Wilson raced toward it and emerged on the other side untouched. He ran another 24 yards upfield -- also untouched -- until he found the endzone.
That may not have been the play that ended Kentucky’s 31-game losing streak to the Gators, but it might as well have been.
It gave the Wildcats the lead with 9:49 left in the third quarter and helped them earn a 27-16 win at Ben Hill Griffin Stadium on Saturday night, ending the longest active win streak in college football.
“I mean, it ended,” coach Dan Mullen said. “The streak had nothing to do with tonight's game. It has nothing to do with next week's game. It happens, it's sports.”
All of Florida’s swagger, all of its momentum brought forth from a commanding win over Charleston Southern last weekend seemed to vanish.
It started as soon as cornerback Marco Wilson injured his leg.
The Gators sophomore went down after getting tangled up with a Kentucky wide receiver early in the first half and left the game.
The Florida defense seemed to forgot how to tackle following Wilson’s departure.
Wilson and Snell ran like men on fire. The Wildcats (2-0, 1-1 SEC) averaged 9.5 yards per carry in the first half alone. Most of those came after missed tackles. Whenever the Gators (1-1, 0-1 SEC) put pressure on Terry Wilson, the Kentucky quarterback scrambled out of the pocket -- usually breaking a tackle or two -- and either took off or made a good throw. UK ended the game with 454 yards of offense, compared to UF’s 360.
“I think it was a lot of missed tackles,” cornerback C.J. Henderson said. “We need to communicate a lot better.”
Florida’s offense didn’t fare much better.
Quarterback Feleipe Franks couldn’t connect efficiently with his receivers in the field, going 17-for-38 with two touchdowns and an interception.
Florida’s receiving core also had trouble breaking free in coverage, forcing Franks to attempt passes through small windows.
Not even the Gators’ run game could break the funk. No UF running back recorded more than 34 yards, and they rarely broke through the Kentucky defensive line for a big gain.
“The tempo of the game, we weren’t doing a great job getting off the field,” Mullen said. “I felt like we needed to try and score some points. Maybe we weren’t as patient as we needed to be running the football.”
Florida’s special teams couldn’t bail the team out either, though not for a lack of effort. Toward the end of the third quarter, kicker Evan McPherson sent a field goal attempt just inside the left upright. Or so it seemed.
The ball actually sailed over the upright. It looked like it could have curved in. But the referees disagreed, saying it stayed over and, therefore, was not good, much to the displeasure of the home crowd.
"I mean, I thought it was good and the fans thought it was good too,” wide receiver Van Jefferson said. “They made the call, so we couldn't change it, so it is what it is.”
Florida has a home game next week against Colorado State before it hits the road for a two-game stretch. The Gators will look to bounce back against a Colorado State team fresh off an upset win over Arkansas.
“Much more importantly to me is not where we're at right at this very second,” Mullen said, “it's where our attitude's going to be on Monday when we show up to get ready for next week's game. I'll have a better idea at that point where we might be as a program."