Three things we learned during Gators' 37-27 comeback win at Vanderbilt:
1. Dan Mullen’s bag of tricks is bottomless.
Mullen continues to dial up with the right play at the right time to rally the Gators. This Saturday, Mullen used his magic touch to turn punter Tommy Townsend into a hero.
Townsend had never faked a punt during his career, dating even to his days at Orlando Boone. Mullen still had no problem putting the game and the Gators’ four-game winning streak in Townsend’s hands to spark the comeback at Vanderbilt.
Facing fourth-and-three from the UF 37, Townsend took the snap and sprinted up the middle for an 18-yard gain. Three plays later, the Gators cut Vanderbilt’s lead to 21-20 on a 38-yard touchdown pass from Feleipe Franks to Van Jefferson.
“I'd been anticipating it all week,” Townsend said. “We've been practicing hard. From that point on, it was just waiting for the call. And once it was made, it was go-time.
“It was awesome.”
It also has come to be expected from Mullen.
A double-pass led to the go-ahead score at Mississippi State. Last week against LSU, little-used tight end Lucas Krull’s throwback pass to Franks set up the go-ahead touchdown.
With Georgia up next, Mullen is sure to have a few surprises in store for the Bulldogs.
Mullen’s bold, swashbuckling style is not limited to trick plays. The Gators twice converted fourth-and-ones, including from the UF 47 when trailing just 7-0. The Gators would end up with a field goal.
Mullen’s approach rallies his players, entertains fans and keeps things interesting. Most of all, it wins games.

“We needed some momentum, and it seemed like a good time to call it,” he said of the punt fake.
The Commodores certainly did not see it coming. Neither did some of the Gators, including Franks, who was on the sideline chatting with Mullen when he noticed something was amiss.
“He kind of played it good,” Franks said. “He came over to me and was just kind of talking to me, but I was wondering because he kept peaking on the field. I was like, what are you doing?”
Once he realized what happened, Franks’ reaction was priceless.
“I was like, man, that’s gutsy,” he said. “I was like, appreciate that. Went to the huddle. So that was pretty cool.”
2. The Gators’ defense gives up too many explosive plays to be an elite unit.
Todd Grantham’s defense makes a lot of big plays due to its aggressive nature, but also gives up too many of them.
Vanderbilt’s 75-yard touchdown on a screen pass to tailback Ke’Shawn Vaughn was a classic example of a team using the Gators’ aggressiveness against them. Recognizing a run blitz was coming on first down, QB Kyle Shurmur checked into the play to burn the Gators’ D.
On the Commodores’ first scoring drive, Vaughn ripped off a 43-yard run on first down. Star receiver Kalija Lipscomb followed with a pair of 15-yard plays, one receiving and one rushing.
A week earlier against LSU, UF gave up an 80-yard touchdown drive on four plays, including runs of 47 and 31 yards, to fall behind early in the fourth quarter before rallying to win.
“I think we’re gonna see a lack of effort,” Mullen said of the chunk gains by the Commodores. “I think some we’re gonna have an MA, a missed assignment. I think some, I don’t think we strained to the level that’s expected to strain to erase and eliminate a big play.
“Guys gotta understand, if one guys makes a big mistake for a big play, everybody else can’t sit there and say hey, I did my job. We need guys to erase it.”
The Gators need to eliminate similar mistakes going forward or eventually might pay a bigger price.
3. Tailback Lamical Perine is Gators’ best offensive player.
Perine has been UF’s most complete running back. He was the only player on offense doing anything until his teammates finally caught up Saturday.
Perine totaled 214 yards from scrimmage, including a team-leading 121 rushing and 93 receiving, to become the first UF player with 200 total yards since Matt Jones in 2014.
Perine followed a 19-yard catch with a 7-yard touchdown run to cut the lead to 21-10. Perine’s 63-yard catch later set up a field goal at the end of the first half.
Perine’s five-yard catch on third-and-five kept alive the Gators’ touchdown drive that cut the lead to 21-20.
Sidekick Jordan Scarlett later got in on the act. His 48-yard touchdown run proved to be the go-ahead score and capped the Gators’ run of 24 unanswered points.
After the game, he said he and Perine pushed each other to become the first pair of 100-yard rushers by the Gators’ in two seasons. Perine’s push, though, started everything.
“It works hand-in-hand, because we always compete,” Scarlett said. “We compete in practice. We compete in the meeting room, weight room. We come out here and do the same thing. He busts a run. I want to come back and bust a run.
“Like, that’s just how we’ve been doing it. That’s how we’re going to continue to do it.”