Derek Mason said the right things, but his body language screamed frustration.
Vanderbilt, again, almost beat a ranked opponent Saturday, instead falling 37-27 to No. 16 Florida after leading 21-3. A month earlier, the Commodores staged their own comeback but lost 22-17 to No. 5 Notre Dame.
When asked if he’s concerned whether another missed opportunity will affect his team, Mason leaned back in his chair, tilted his head and shook his head before the question was finished.
“I really don’t (worry about a letdown),” Mason said. “You guys talk about them being ranked. I don’t. I talk about having to go 1-0 that week. So I’m not going to make it bigger than what it is.”
Vanderbilt had a letdown after last near-upset
Mason paints a positive picture, or at least as optimistic as he can, after missing a chance for a big win. But there are reasons for concern.
When Vanderbilt showed its potential in nearly upsetting Notre Dame, it followed that up with a lackluster 37-14 loss to South Carolina. This time the Commodores will face No. 20 Kentucky Saturday (6:30 p.m., SEC Network) to start a stretch of three straight road games.
Furthermore, Vanderbilt has suffered recent losses for various reasons.
Mason said his team lacked mental focus when it lost to South Carolina. He said shortcomings in a 41-13 loss to No. 2 Georgia were due to physical limitations, including injuries. And the Commodores may be in worse shape moving forward.
Running back Ke’Shawn Vaughn broke a 43-yard run and a 75-yard TD reception against Florida, but he left with an unspecified injury. Mason did not have an update on Vaughn’s injury after the game. Also, linebacker Charles Wright missed a second straight game after Mason said he expected him to play against the Gators.
Not even Tim Corbin’s old advice has helped
Mason and players said their path to victory comes in “getting back to the middle,” which is an emphasis on consistency they first borrowed from Vanderbilt baseball coach Tim Corbin before a 2016 win at Ole Miss.
But the Commodores have struggled to find that even-keeled level of play, especially in facing high-level competition. They outplayed Notre Dame in the second half, but only after falling behind in the first half. They built a 21-3 lead against the Gators, who then matched their largest road comeback in program history.
The “middle” seems to elude Vanderbilt, despite being its target of every game.
“Every game is an emotional rollercoaster,” linebacker Josh Smith said. “But we have to learn to stay in the middle. The best ball is played in the middle.”
After facing Kentucky, Vanderbilt plays at Arkansas (Oct. 27), at Missouri (Nov. 10) and at home against Ole Miss (Nov. 17) and Tennessee (Nov. 24). It must win three of its final five games to reach bowl eligibility.
RECAP: Florida 37, Vanderbilt 27: Five things we learned as Commodores blow 18-point lead
COLUMN: A dirty Florida hit, a near fight, another Vanderbilt football collapse in Nashville
FIERY EXCHANGE: Vanderbilt coach Derek Mason jaws with Florida coaches Dan Mullen, Todd Grantham after hit, injury