Tennessee tight end Austin Pope was all alone running down the sideline. 
The redshirt sophomore was uncovered on a wheel route that he ran out of the backfield, and quarterback Jarrett Guarantano hit him in-stride for what looked liked like an easy six with UT down 23-3 in second quarter.
But corner C.J. Henderson didn’t give up on the play. The sophomore swept Pope’s legs out from under him at the five-yard line, forcing a fumble through the end zone for a touchback.
"We had done that on a couple of scrimmages, running down to make a play," Henderson said. "Really, I didn't even know he fumbled. So I just strained, and it was an effort play."
It was that sort of game under the lights of Neyland Stadium for the Volunteers.
The home side fell behind early and never recovered, losing to Florida for the 13th time in the last 14 years by a final tally of 47-21.
Sloppy play by Tennessee headlined a first half as it committed four turnovers in the frame - three and a turnover-on-downs in the first quarter alone - and six total for the game. It was the most giveaways by the Volunteers since a 45-38 loss to Texas A&M in 2016 (7).
“When you continue to let people run and hit the quarterback in the back when he’s not looking, eventually he’s going to drop the ball,” Tennessee coach Jeremy Pruitt said. “For us to have success, we need to be on the other side.”
Jachai Polite punished Guarantano from his blind side for a sack-fumble seven minutes into the contest, and the ball landed into the chest of David Reese, who returned it to the opposing 21 in his first time seeing action in 2018 due to a nagging ankle injury. 
Guarantano looked to dump a screen pass to his tailback on third-and-23 from his own 12 on the very next UT possession, but defensive end Luke Ancrum recognized the play and picked off the quarterback to set up Florida’s second score of the game. 
Both teams headed to the locker room with visitors up 26-3. 
The second-half kickoff didn’t bring any fortune for UT either.
The Volunteers’ Shawn Shamburger muffed the kick then returned it to the 19-yard line, where he fumbled and the Gators took over. Running back Jordan Scarlett broke three arm tackles on the very next play to help extend the advantage to 33-3.
Scarlett had a decent night toting the rock for UF. He averaged 7 yards per carry on 11 attempts for 77 yards and the lone end zone appearance, his longest rush.
The final Tennessee giveaway came two drives later after it converted its second field goal. Guarantano forced a deep pass into double-coverage, and safety Brad Stewart Jr. made a spectacular grab over the head of the intended target and brought it down at his own two-yard line. 
Questions surrounded how Feleipe Franks would begin in front of the 100,027 present fans after he started 0-for-6 passing against Colorado State the week prior. 
The Florida starting quarterback came out firing, completing his first three passes for 35 yards including a one-yard touchdown to tight end R.J. Raymond that opened the scoring.
His production stifled, however, as he finished the evening 9-for-18 for 172 yards and three touchdown passes. 
He also showed off his legs in the first half. The Crawfordville, Florida, native punched in a one-yard score with just under five minutes left in the first quarter. 
The Gators took over from their own 35 after CeCe Jefferson stuffed the Volunteers’ Tim Jordan in the end zone for a safety to boost the visitors’ lead to 16-3.
Franks escaped pressure and scrambled toward the sideline on the subsequent drive’s first play. Also darting toward the sideline 15 yards down the field was senior Freddie Swain. 
Swain’s blossomed into one of his quarterback’s favorite targets, and after Franks hit him wide open, he raced down the sideline. Two UT defensive backs appeared to have an angle on him, but the Ocala, Florida, product out-ran them and dived for the pylon, extending the ball just inside of it to complete a 65-yard catch-and-run.
The touchdown tied him for first on the team in receiving touchdowns with Van Jefferson at three, and he leads the team with four total. Swain finished the night with 88 yards and leads all UF receivers with 193 yards on the season.
Franks’ next touchdown throw didn’t come until the fourth quarter. He fired a 38-yard ball to Tyrie Cleveland to give the Gators a 27-point lead and shove a dagger in the back of the home fans.
“I think we took a step forward,” UF coach Dan Mullen said. “We played with more mental toughness than we did last week. We had a little bit more effort. We still have such a long way to go.”