UF coach Dan Mullen had “Rocky Top” ringing in his ears by week’s end in Gainesville.
On Saturday night in Knoxville, Mullen and his Gators enjoyed sweet silence.
The turnover-plagued Vols, now losers of 10 straight SEC games, had a rocky start on Rocky Top and never recovered during a resounding 47-21 win by rival Florida (3-1, 1-1 SEC).
“I think we played with good energy; I think we played with good effort. There’s a lot of things I like,” Mullen said. “I like the direction we’re headed.”
Some of the announced crowd of 100,027 at Neyland Stadium headed for the exits at the start of the third quarter of Tennessee’s most-lopsided loss in the series since a 59-20 drubbing in 2007.
Expecting an emotionally hard-fought road game and endless renditions of Rocky Top by the Vols’ band, Mullen played Tennessee’s unofficial fight song all week at practice. The 46-year-old coach even called it a “catchy tune.”
While the ditty occasionally was heard Saturday night, per tradition, Vols fans had nothing to celebrate.
“That was the goal,” Mullen said. “We played it enough. We played it a lot at practice this week.”
Other than a 65-yard touchdown catch-and-run by Freddie Swain, Tennessee hand-delivered the Gators 16 points and a 26-3 halftime lead. The two teams were tied at halftime with 204 total yards, but four turnovers by the Vols proved their undoing.
Tennessee (2-2, 0-1) then fumbled the kickoff to open the second half, leading to a 19-yard touchdown run by Jordan Scarlett a play later to push UF’s lead to 33-3.
The Vols would finish with six turnovers leading to 24 UF points in a 26-point win.
“We were just hustling to the ball, and it felt like the ball was just on our side,” linebacker David Reese said. “I feel like we out-physicaled them, out-toughed them. We set that standard early in the game.” 
The Gators’ first two scoring drives covered just 28 yards and followed Vols’ miscues. In just his second game this season, UF senior CeCe Jefferson later had a safety after a punt by Tommy Townsend, a Tennessee transfer and Orlando native, pinned Tennessee on its 2-yard line.
Reese, returning from a three-game absence due to injury, made his impact felt immediately and finished with a team-high 11 tackles. On the Vols’ first series, he recovered a fumble by Vols quarterback Jarrett Guarantano on the Tennessee 24 caused by a Jachai Polite sack.
Following a three-yard loss on first down, Feleipe Franks found Swain on a skinny post for a 23-yard completion. Two plays later, fifth-senior tight end R.J. Raymond’s first career catch gave the Gators a 7-0 lead. Raymond, a former walk-on, entered the game with two drops this season but made a nice adjustment to the ball to catch Franks’ pass.
The Gators’ next touchdown was even more of a gift by Guarantano. Facing third-and-23, the redshirt sophomore threw a screen pass into the waiting hands of UF defensive tackle Luke Ancrum to give UF the ball on the 7.
A 1-yard run by Franks two plays later pushed the lead to 14-0.
Tennessee had its chances to trim UF’s advantage.
But on 3rd-and-1 from the UF 14, Reese and tackle Adam Shuler stuffed tailback Ty Chandler for no game, leading the Vols to settle for a 32-yard field goal by Brent Cimaglia.
Shuler, a former standout at Longwood’s Lyman High, finished with eight tackles and quickly has developed into a key player up front.
“Man, it's just coming from the hard work,” he said. “The drive to be a dog on the field. Work hard throughout the week and it's going to show up in the game.”
Trailing 23-3, Tennessee looked to threaten again when Guarantano connected with wide-open tight end Austin Pope. As the 6-foot-4, 240-pound Pope lumbered down the sideline, UF sophomore cornerback CJ Henderson sprinted from the other side of the field, tackled Pope at the 4 and forced a fumble out of the back of the end zone for a touchback.
“We talk about effort,” Mullen said. “To me that really is the game-changing play.”
Henderson’s hustle play was among several highlights for the Gators’ secondary.
Sophomore safety Brad Stewart, who was beaten for touchdowns each of the past two games, forced a fumble and made an interception on the goal line. Sophomore backup cornerback Brian Edwards had two pass break-ups.
The defensive showing and Tennessee’s turnovers alleviated the pressure on the Gators’ offense.
Last year, Franks needed a Hail Mary to Tyrie Cleveland to beat the Vols on the last play. On Saturday night, Franks was efficient throwing the ball when it mattered and showcased some running ability.
Franks completed four of his first five throws for 100 yards and two scores and had a 17-yard run to set up an Evan McPherson field goal.
UF managed just 39 yards in the third quarter and had three three-and-outs, but Franks found Cleveland for a 38-yard score with 13:17 remaining to extend the Gators’ lead to 40-13.
“Our guys did a really good job in the fourth quarter, bouncing back and getting back into that little groove we were in in the first half,” Franks said. “So we did a good job, but we definitely have to get over that little lapse.”
By the time Cleveland found the end zone, Neyland Stadium was less than half full. The win was UF’s 13th in 14 meetings with Tennessee and ended the Gators’ seven-game losing streak to Power 5 teams, dating to a win against Vanderbilt last Sept. 30.
Beating the Vols and first-year coach Jeremy Pruitt also gave Mullen’s rebuild a boost as his Gators enter a tough stretch with a visit to Mississippi State followed by a home date with LSU.
“We have some tough challenges ahead,” Mullen said. “This is a good stepping stone.”