Dan Mullen danced in the locker room even though his Florida Gators’ offense stumbled on the field.
The scoreboard Saturday read: UF 48, Colorado State 10.
Mullen, though, knows the real score. His team has a long way to go.
“We’ve got a lot of things to work on, a lot of things to work on,” Mullen said. “And I still think, we get to do it this week with a smile on our face. We’re going to enjoy the win tonight.”
Kentucky left Mullen shell shocked and in search of answers. Colorado State arrived a week later to give the Gators (2-1) a much-needed boost of confidence and something to build on.
With an SEC gauntlet on the horizon, beginning with next weekend’s visit to Tennessee, UF was far from flawless against its over-matched Mountain West Conference foe.
The Gators were opportunistic.
UF’s special teams units scored 17 points against the Rams. The Gators’ resurgent pass rush tallied five sacks to rattle a Colorado State passing offense averaging 369 yards and able to help the Rams rally to beat Arkansas a week earlier.
UF’s offense needed all the help it could get on a night when it ran just 44 plays — CSU ran 83 — and quarterback Feleipe Franks had a nightmarish start, ending the first quarter 0-of-6 passing, with an interception and a QB rating of minus-33.3.
The Gators’ attack would end the night with 341 yards — 19 fewer than during the Kentucky loss — and some highlight-reel plays. Franks would go on to complete eight of his final nine throws for 119 yards and two touchdowns, including a textbook 38-yard sideline route to Van Jefferson late in the game.
But Florida staked a 27-0 lead mostly in spite of its offense.
“Anytime you win how we won, you got to be pleased, and especially that we were able to win how we won with how the game played out,” the offensive-minded Mullen said. “That’s a real positive for our guys. That they were able to win. I hope they all are enjoying and have a big smile on their faces.
“I walked in the locker room and I started dancing and having fun, because winning’s fun. [They’ve] got to learn that.”
Lately, the Gators have not had much to celebrate. The Kentucky loss, the Gators’ first to the Wildcats since 1986, was their seventh straight against a Power 5 school.
Tennessee has lost nine straight games to Power 5 opponents. Last season, Jim McElwain’s Gators needed a Hail Mary to beat Butch Jones’ Vols.
This time, Mullen’s team is going to need a better start in a hostile environment to beat the Vols (2-1) and new coach Jeremy Pruitt.
A Kentucky hangover and the Florida heat led to a sluggish start for the Gators before a reported home crowd of 80,021.
The heat index for the 4 p.m. kickoff was 116 degrees during a steamy day in the Swamp. But the Gators’ offense came out ice cold behind Franks.
CSU entered the game allowing an average off 550 yards in three games. But UF managed just 27 during the first quarter and settled for a pair of Evan McPherson field goals when the Gators failed to capitalize on turnovers deep in CSU territory.
Florida’s offense finally found its footing during the second quarter as Franks began to settle down.
On the Gators’ first possession, Mullen went to a two-back set with Jordan Scarlett and Malik Davis during a five-play, 65-yard touchdown drive. Scarlett capped the drive with a 30-yard touchdown run that followed a 24-yard hookup between Van Jefferson and Franks.
Franks ended the Gators’ next drive with an 18-yard touchdown to Freddie Swain.
“He’s got to do a better job of just getting the flow of the game early that way, understanding what goes on,” Mullen said of Franks. “They did give us some different looks than they’ve shown this year to start the game off. He’s just got to manage through those things.”
Franks, though, did not need to be at his best against CSU. The Gators’ special teams and defense had the redshirt sophomore’s back.
Tyrie Cleveland recovered a blocked punt in the end zone during the second quarter to extend UF’s lead to 27-0. Swain’s 85-yard punt return early in the fourth quarter pushed UF’s advantage to 34-10 ended CSU’s remote hopes of a late comeback similar to a week earlier.
The Rams rallied from an 18-point deficit to beat Arkansas in Colorado. But CSU (1-3) but would wilt against the Gators in the sweltering Swamp, averaging just 3.7 yards on 83 plays.
In the end, Franks gave credit where credit was due.
“Defense played a really good game today,” he said. “Special teams, they had a wonderful day. They helped swing momentum and even got a couple of scores.
“We have a really good team.”