A pre-game, locker-room pep talk from Florida legends Tim Tebow and Danny Wuerffel offered the Gators inspiration.
Moments later, coach Dan Mullen provided the energy to a sellout crowd, whipping it into a frenzy while he hopped up and down in the south end-zone tunnel and waved his arms like a man possessed.
The stage was a set for a emotional and memorable day in the Swamp.
Mullen and the No. 22 Gators did not disappoint during Saturday’s 27-19 win over the No. 5 LSU Tigers.
“We keep finding different ways to win football games,” Mullen said. “We get punched right in the face and we don't flinch. That's something that's huge for this team.
“Huge win for us. Huge win for us going forward.”
With Tebow and the 2008 national-title team among the announced crowd of 90,283, the Gators (5-1, 2-1 SEC) and Tigers treated onlookers to an old-fashioned SEC slugfest followed by a fourth-quarter track meet.
Sophomore safety Brad Stewart, a New Orleans native, sealed the win on an interception returned for a 25-yard touchdown with 1:45 remaining in the game, sending the Swamp into pandemonium.
“Shoutout to Gator Nation because we couldn’t hear a thing after that interception or the drive after that,” Stewart said.
Mullen, the team’s offensive coordinator in 2005-08, remembers those days well.
“There's a Florida I know, there's a Florida that I love,” the 46-year-old said. “It was that way tonight. The Swamp was an intimidating place to come play.”
Stewart’s pick was LSU quarterback Joe Burrow’s first interception of the season. The Ohio State transfer suffered another pick to end the next drive along with an unbeaten start for the Tigers (5-1, 2-1).
Stewart’s play highlighted a wild fourth quarter that featured the Gators’ most impressive drive of the season and ended with UF's fourth straight win and its first against a top-10 opponent since 2015.
“Just a big-time win,” quarterback Feleipe Franks said. “It feels so good.”
With Tebow in town to be inducted into the UF Ring of Honor and the Gators’ trailing 19-14, Franks showcased the kind of versatility Tebow displayed during his decorated career. On the game-winning drive, Franks completed a 26-yard pass, had a 12-yard run and caught a 15-yard pass on a throwback from tight end Lucas Krull to set up Lamical Perine’s 2-yard touchdown run.
The touchdown put UF ahead 20-19 and was the game’s fourth lead change, the kind of back and forth that has come to be expected in this longstanding crossover rivalry.
“That was a heavyweight fight out there,” Mullen said.
The last four meetings were decided by a touchdown or fewer. A goal-line stand earned the Gators a win in 2016 and a missed extra point handed the Tigers’ a 17-16 decision last season in the Swamp.
Along with Tebow’s induction, his 2008 national-title team was honored at halftime.
UF’s players wanted to make those Gators proud and show the progress the program has made under Mullen.
“I talk about the Gator standard. These are the guys that set that standard,” Mullen said of Tebow and the 2008 team.
But on the game’s opening drive, LSU quickly sucked the life out of the Swamp.
LSU attacked UF’s defense by going up-tempo and identifying a weakness, backup cornerback C.J. McWilliams. McWilliams allowed three complete passes, beginning with a 38-yard catch by Justin Jefferson. The fast-paced, 10-play drive covered 75 yards in just 3:17, culminating in 4-yard touchdown run by tailback Nick Brossette.
The Gators failed to answer on offense. Things soon looked bleak as the Tigers drove the field again. But on first-and-10 from the UF 28, Gator pass rusher Jachai Polite turned the corner and strip-sacked Burrow to force the Tigers’ fourth turnover of the season.
The play would change the game’s complexion. The Tigers stalled and the Gators came to life.
Special teams would be key.
Twice, punter Tommy Townsend pinned the Tigers deep in their territory. The second time, Townsend’s punt left LSU starting from its 5.
A third-down sack by linebacker Vosean Joseph, who had a game-high 14 tackles, and poor punt by LSU gave the Gators the ball on the Tigers’ 43. From there, UF rode tailback Perine, who grinded out 26 tough yards on seven carries. Perine, who rushed for a season-high 85 yards and two scores, ended the nine-play drive with a 1-yard touchdown run with 12:30 to go in the first half.
“I was just getting into a rhythm,” Perine said. “Once I start getting confidence man, getting into that rhythm I feel like I'm a pretty dominant guy."
LSU continued to move the ball, twice reaching into UF territory but only managed three points — on a 33-yard field goal by Cole Tracy for a 10-7 lead.
Franks and the Gators’ answered with arguably their best drive of the season, covering 75 yards in seven plays and 2:01. Franks’ picture-perfect 35-yard hook-up with Josh Hammond on a corner route was the highlight. Franks followed the play with a 3-yard touchdown pass to Moral Stephens to give UF a 14-10 lead.
Franks, though, would open the second half with the kind of mistake that marred last season but had been rare in 2018.
Franks opened the second half with a 49-yard completion to Hammond, giving the Gators the ball on the Tigers’ 13 following a personal-foul penalty by LSU on the play. On the next play, Franks lobbed a throw into the middle of the end zone and into the hands of LSU’s cornerback Jontre Kirklin.
LSU capitalized, but it would take awhile.
Trailing 14-10, the Tigers gashed the Gators for 80 yards on the ensuing drive after gaining just 118 yards the previous two quarters. Brossette had runs of 31 and 47 yards before scoring on a 1-yard touchdown.
LSU would not hold the 19-14 lead for long, with the Tebow-inspired Gators taking control in the final nine minutes and taking a big step toward creating their own legacy.
The Gators also are not getting ahead of themselves.
“It's another step for us,” defensive back Chauncey Gardner-Johnson said. “We don't dwell on one game.”